From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes.
Oh, weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 43. Recorded live
Tuesday, November 30th, 2010. Support for Hansel
minutes is provided by Tellerik
R a D control. It
was the most comprehensive suite
of components For windows forms
and asp.net web applications online
at www dot T E
L  dot com. In
this episode, Scott talks with
Steve Sanderson about his MVVM
JavaScript library. Knock out. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman and
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And today I'm
on campus at the Microsoft
Redmond and I'm here today
with Steven Sanderson, new Microsoft
employee. That's. All right. Hello,
Scott, how are you? How
are you doing, sir? I
am doing fine. Thank you.
Brilliant. So you've gone from
being a consultant to working
for the man, Sorry. Yep.
I just started at the
beginning of last week and
I am still trying to
figure out what's going on.
Yeah. Why I'm here pretty
dramatic. You got off the
plane yesterday? Yes, that's right.
Well, one of the things
that I wanted to talk
to you today, just kind
of coincidentally, since we're both
on the, on the left
side of the pond is
I think that there's this
great open source project that
more people should know about.
It's called knockout JS and
you can see it@knockoutjs.com. Talk
to me about what is,
what is knockout? Okay. Well,
yeah, great. So this is
a project that I started
about, I don't know, six
months ago or something like
that. It came out of
some experiences that I've had
over the last few years,
trying to build dynamic JavaScript
applications and trying to find
ways of simplifying that and
organizing the code so that
it's not just a big,
massive bundle of mess. I've
probably done about three different
versions of my, my own
brand of JavaScript client side
library over the years. And
this has kind of the
latest incarnation of all that.
So the idea is that
we are increasing to building
very rich web pages with
lots of JavaScript time. That's
very much accepted as the
way web development should be
these days. And in terms
of creating enrich clients, ad
experiences, it's all about JavaScript.
So we're not really doing
too much in terms of
browser plugins. If you want
to make your application run
on iOS and on Android
tablets and on windows, PCs
on everything, then, you know,
it's gotta be JavaScript obviously,
but that's still a big
challenge. So what I've done
with knockout is try to
create a system of following
the model view, view model
pattern to enable you to
create your application and quite
a maintainable and simple way.
So this is really interesting
because we had Lauren ,
who was a Silverlight developer
on last week or the
week before last talking about
MVVM okay. And here we
are talking to you. Now
I'm a web developer, you're
a web developer. We are
now peers on the Microsoft
web platform team. You have
written a book on asp.net,
MVC as headlines. So why
are two MVC developers talking
about MVVM, which is something
that we talked about with
the Silverlight guy, It's a
diff MVVM differs from MVC,
and that it's trying to
solve a slightly different problem.
MVVM is really good for
interactive user interfaces where there's
some kind of state inherent
in the system. Whereas model
view controller, I'm not talking
about the original definition model
view controller. That's kind of
very similar to what we
mean when we say MVVM
today, but forget about that.
W if we understand MVC
to mean the thing that
Aspina MVC does and Ruby
on rails does, and things
like that do that's really
all optimized around requests and
responses and statelessness and such
like, whereas the MVVM pattern,
which was originally talked about
Microsoft when they were Durbin
gum Silverlight or WPF, or
some technology prior to that
is about formalizing a abstract
definition of a, of a
model of what's happening in
a user interface. So if
you've got a list and
some buttons and some dropdown
menus, then you might have
a class that represents the
state of each of those
things, but they're not controls,
it's just an abstract class.
And then that gives you
a very clean abstract way
of manipulating the state of
your user interface without being
tied to a certain UI
technology, and then letting the
technology do the hard work
of actually finding that up
with some stuff that happens
on screen and the developer
doesn't have to worry too
much about that. Okay. So
let me see if I
can, can put this into
a terms that I understand,
and you tell me if
I'm paraphrasing correctly back to
you, you will use an
example on the homepage here
of knockout js.com. If I've
got a, a ticketing system.
Yep. Certainly I have a
ticket's a database or Lord
knows what's going on in
the database. What we traditionally
think of as the entity
relationship diagram, I may have
a model that sits on
top of that database. That
may be a little bit
less normalized and a little
more businessy tickets. And this
is on your server, usually
on my server. And then
at some point we come
all the way out to
the raising model view controller,
and we have a controller
that talks to the model
and it generates a view.
And now we're over on
the client side on the
client. I may have a
JavaScript model, but in this
case, I'm in the view.
So that's really a view
model. It's a model of
what's being expressed. It may
also be called tickets, but
it may have things like
the name of the ticket,
the price of the ticket,
maybe also things like is
the ticket valid or the
ticket number or the state
of the ticket. Yeah. And
it's likely to be very
denormalized. It might have things
like the price, if it's
discounted for a gold member
and the price of it's
discounted for silver member and
so on, you wouldn't store
all these things separately on
database, that would be mad.
But in terms of the
way that your view works,
there might be all treated
as if they were separate
pieces of information, even though
behind the scenes, they're all
computed from some underlying thing,
Right? So stated differently work
may have occurred on the
server side to tell me
the price of a ticket
for a first class person
or an economy person. But
by the time I got
out to the model, as
it is expressed within the
view, sir, literally the Jason
that is admitted, that work
has been done. Yeah, that's
right. And you don't want
to repeat that logic on
the client. So you're just
going to treat it in
some really simple way. This
is just a bunch of
properties and we want to
get that on screen somehow.
And so the view model
is just a representation of
the data that is there
to be put on screen
and edited by the user.
And this idea of the
I've been saying this for
almost 15 years, when we
were doing big systems and
classic ASP, we always used
to talk about the closer
you get to the user,
the less normalized your data
should look. And the more
it should look like the
way the user thinks about
it. Yeah. So the Jason
that you have here, which
is in Jason, we're talking
about JavaScript, object notation, J
S O N pronounced chasing
looks like, Oh, you a
little UI. It's very well
organized. It's a nice tabular
expression of a list it's
as close you close, as
you could get, you could
almost kind of squint and
imagine that it's a table.
Yeah. That's extremely UI focused,
a ticket on the UI
is not a ticket in
the model in the middle.
And it is not a
ticket in the database. No,
that's right. It's just a
representation of something that the
user can see. So you're
saying that instead of outputting
my UI, that contains its
data. What do I do?
I output my data, my
view data, my representation of
tickets. And then how do
I turn that into HTML?
And How does that work?
Yeah. All right. So that's
the thing that knockout does
so that all we talked
about so far with the
model Mavi view model pattern,
and view models, that soul,
just like a, almost a
philosophical thing about the pattern
now, knockout comes in and
says, assuming that you've got
some concept of what your
view model should be, we
want to get that onscreen
and give the user a
way of seeing and interacting
with that. And the approach
that knockout takes with that
is that it has a
declarative binding syntax. So it
uses the new HTML five
data attributes. And you can
just put one of those
on any HTML element and
reference it and follow a
particular simple declarative syntax and
referenced some product properties on
your view model, which is
a JavaScript object. And then
knockout deals with linking the
two things together. So if
you say bind to the
text of this element, to
this property, then whatever value
is in that property will
be the text of the
element. And when the property
value changes in our model,
the text on the HTML
element changes. And if it's
an editable, let's say it's
a drop down list or
a check box. Then when
the user interacts with that,
they're actually going to be
modifying the state on the
view model. So you've linked
these two things together. So
that's just one of the
things that knock out does
it's link and give you
a model with your HTML
Dom. So if I understand,
then I bring some Jason
out that represents tickets. Yep.
Then a bunch of work
is done in HTML that
I don't really have to
think about. Then that same
exact array of tickets gets
updated. It's being updated on
the client. Yes. We're not
talking to the server or
knocking it out as a
purely clients. So we're talking
about a relationship that's happening,
a little sort of circle
of interaction between the browser
and the JavaScript in the
browser and the user. But
the point is that I
outputted some Jason, the user
did some stuff and it's
not that. And then the
user pushed a button and
the da the data got
updated. The data was always
updated. It is, it is,
it was not even a
sync. It's a live sync
it's happening as it is.
Yeah, that's right. Yeah. A
modification to one is, is
a modification to the other.
And then I can take
that Jason, and send it
right back to the, Yeah.
So one way of thinking
about what knockout is, is
that it's a very rich
and simultaneously simple way of
making editors for Jason data.
You can, if you can
get some data Jason from
your server, then we can
make an HTML editor for
it and with a very
straightforward syntax. And then you
can send that Jess, on
back to your server. That's
interesting because one of the
things that I have always
found the most tedious about
HTML and JavaScript is what
we call text boxes over
data, right. Is that just
tedious terminal type application? I
mean, getting, you know, that's
just why you always see
interesting examples when you know,
your Microsoft, your local Microsoft
guy goes up and does
a demo. They always output
a table of data. It's
always more impressive when they
edit that data. Cause that's
where things get tricky because
of synchronization of state and
moving things around. So you're
saying that the MVVM is
happening entirely on the client
side. Yes, that's right. Yeah.
Entirely in the browser. So
MVC as a larger architectural
pattern showing the relationship between
the client and the server
and what's going on on
the server side and then
MVVM inside my browser itself.
Yeah. MVC is really good
for requests and responses and
that fits perfectly with HTTP
and the whole server side
web architecture. And MVVM is
more of a kind of
live ongoing stateful thing. And
that works great for some
JavaScript that's running in your
browser. Well, let's do this.
Let's take a very brief
kind of side conversation because
in the middle there, you
said HTML five data attributes.
I think that's something interesting
there, because one, I think
that HTML five is just
becoming like, it's like the
new name, like web 2.0
right in the old days,
you'd sit when the old
days, two years ago, you'd
say web 2.0 Shiny. Yeah.
That it was a Jack,
so, And your startup and
give you money. Yeah. Now
HTML is like the word
that everyone uses to mean
all things. And it's amazing
while there is a, you
know, a formal standard that
is slowly making its way
through the process, these data
attributes that you're describing, I
can pretty much slap those
on existing page. Yeah. And
knockout works back to a
sex, which obviously does not
have any concept of HTML
five of its own. But
yeah. As long as you
are willing to accept the
fact that data attributes are
not strictly valid under an
HTML four validator, then it's
just going to work fine
when you pragmatically, it works.
Now whether you have a
philosophical problem with doing something
that works, but it doesn't
satisfy the W3C validator is
a different question. And if
you absolutely can't accept that,
then you know, you can't
use knockout or you wouldn't
use it in the way
it's intended to be used.
But honestly, in all the
different projects I've ever worked
on as a professional developer,
I've never had a boss
or client yet who was
actually so committed to W3C
validators, that they would actually
accept a significant increase in
development costs. And if knockout
does reduce your development costs
significantly for rich client side
stuff, then I think that
pragmatically that's a good choice.
But of course, every person
listening to this needs to
make their own decision about
that. So these data attributes
that are always referred to
as HTML five data attributes,
this is really, I mean,
HDL, HTML five, be damned.
I could just go and
say angle bracket, input, foo
equals bar. Yeah. You can.
And no one can, Ninth
of browse is absolutely fine
with that. There's a formal
mechanism that I use as
for registering custom attributes and
other browsers are just not
bothered. They'll just let you
do it. And while I
will just let you do
it as well, but you
know, there's, there is some
system I'm not sure even
what the point of following
get's system, as for talking
about custom attributes, But these
data attributes that it's more
convention than anything. I mean,
someone somewhere just decided one
day, if you put the
word data and a hyphen
yeah. That's an official thing.
And that became an official
thing. Yeah, exactly. Because what
web developers have realized over
the years and what every
web developer has done at
different times is just start
putting data into the dump
because you really need to,
because you want to store
a URL that you're going
to use for something associated
with that element. Or you
want to associate it with
an idea of an entity,
but you don't want to
actually munch that into the
element ID for some reason,
or one reason or another,
you want to get some
data associated with your Dom.
So you just stick it
in an attribute and it's
going to work fine. And
the HTML five spec is
just formalizing that and saying,
yes, we officially agree that
that's legitimate. Whereas previously the
strict validator would not have
said it was legitimate. So
you add data hyphen bind.
Yep. Is that the only
one that you add? Yeah.
Did you have to ask
permission or register that somewhere
like a domain or you
just decided squat on it
Well know that there is
no formal system or namespace
single versioning or anything about
these attributes. That's kind of
the point of it all.
It's just, you know, we're
going to just be pragmatic
and do what, what works.
Now, if some of the
framework comes along and wants
to use data binders it's
convention, then that's going to
be an unfortunate clash and
it would be very easy
to extend knockout so that
you could use some other
custom attribute name if you
wanted, but I'm not aware
of any reason to do
that right now. So no,
there's, there's no system for
agreeing who uses what attribute
names There. Isn't just the
term data binding itself, got
such a bad name from
years past that that, that
may be enough to scare
people away. I don't know.
Really. I think that certainly
there are some technologies that
are oriented around data binding
that, you know, maybe not
very popular with the sort
of alpha developers, but really
finding your data to the
user interface is a, is
a really natural concept. And
developers always want to do
it whether or not they
use that particular term for
it. And, you know, people
will be searching the web.
How do I bind this
to that? And it's just
a normal kind of thing
that we have to do,
Perhaps it was the idea
that maybe it was that
the MVVM wasn't quite baked
as a concept in the,
in the VB six days.
And that people were literally
trying to bind data objects
from Drayton directly from tables
directly to the U S
Right. Yeah. If you don't
have a, a nice system
of formalizing what you're doing
on a, not following any
kind of established pattern, then
yeah. I'm sure you can
get into a mess. Okay.
So walk me through what
I would need to do
in, in knock out if
I'm bringing back, you know,
you know, we'll use tickets
because this has been a
good example that people can
actually see live. So if
you're listening to this in
front of a computer, you
can go to knockout js.com
and check it out. These
tickets come back, presumably from,
from adjacent call or an
Ajax call. And I've got
this, this Jason array. Yeah.
And you want to make
an editor for that in
some way. So you might,
maybe you want to let
the user choose it from
a ticket and then show
more information about the ticket
that they've chosen, or even
as a system for administrators
to find tickets and edit
their details. And, you know,
the system is going to
maybe compute discounts that apply
in those test kits or
something like that. But very
briefly, maybe for people who
may not necessarily be familiar
with Jason as a concept.
Okay. Adjacent is some texts
that comes back that is
in itself. Java. Yeah. That's
all right. It's just a
very simple and succinct kind
of encoding mechanism for data.
So yeah, you could use
XML, but Jason is just
a smaller over the wire
because it doesn't have, you
know, big closing angle bracket
names and things like that.
And, and because it's actually
JavaScript code, as you mentioned
than it works really great
with JavaScript because the browsers
net of JavaScript processor can
handle that really quickly. So
it's kind of like a,
a dynamically created bunch of
anonymous objects that just hang
off each other. So it's
almost like with XML, you
bring over these angle brackets,
you parse it into a
Dom while Jason is itself,
as it runs, it is
own Dom its own document,
right? Yeah. It is a
JavaScript object. It's just the
serialized text representation of a
JavaScript object. And it can
represent any data that you
want with the exception that
like XML it's inherently a
hierarchical structure. So it can't
easily represent cyclical references, or
you'd have to have your
own convention for IDs or
something if you wanted to
represent that. But in most
cases, a hierarchy of data
is completely sufficient for what
most people are doing. Hi,
this is Scott coming to
you from another place in
time. Are you using agile
practices to manage your software
development? There's lots of tools
in the market that manage
the steps of a project,
but most of them focus
on individual roles, get ready
for a solution that caters
for the success of the
whole team. Guys at Tellerik
introduced team pulse. It's an
agile project management tool. That'll
help you gather ideas, estimate
plan, track progress in a
common workspace. Finally, companies, regardless
of their size can use
a lightweight and convenient tool.
It makes all the stakeholders
work as a United team,
even if they're in different
countries by combining intuitive user
interface and the power server
light team poles removes the
roadblocks that you typically face
and applying agile in an
effective manner, no more lost
data, no disparate systems, no
lack of critical analytics regarding
the health philosophy project. See
if yourself get a free
copy for five users in
one project at tellerik.com/team pulse.
And please do thank Tellerik
for supporting Hansel minutes on
their Facebook fan page, facebook.com/t
L E R I K
Tellerik. We do appreciate it.
They wouldn't be a Hansel
minutes if there wasn't, Tellerik
helping us. So at its
simplest, I could have a
little web service and I'm
using web services in the
most generic lowercase sense of
the word that returns a,
you know, curly brace name,
Colin Scott, curly brace. And
I've got some Jason. Yep,
exactly. And then there's a
format for encoding a raise
or in the example, here,
we have an array of
airplane ticket. Yeah. It's come
back from some database somewhere.
Yeah, that's right. Almost every
modern web development system on
the server is going to
be able to emit Jason
in Espina MVC. You can
just say return Jason in
rails, you can respond to
a request of type Jason
and well, I'm not really
an expert in many others,
but they're all gonna have
one way or another of
emit. And Jason and I
should expect that most of
them are able to consume
incoming Jason as well. That's
a native feature in ASP,
net MVC three. It isn't
native in the early ones,
but you can do it
in just a few lines
of code. And I, I
was doing some knockout stuff
in Ruby on rails a
few weeks ago, and that's
really easy to receive incoming
Jason, because that's all just
completely native. Okay. So once
this, Jason is now in
memory in my browser, like
you said, as far back
as Isaacs, that's all still
just JavaScript and jQuery, right?
There's no jQuery in this
at all. No, it's just
JavaScript. Yep. So now I
have this, I have this
JavaScript object that's chasing notation
that represents a ticket. Yep.
How does knock out get
in? Does it, does it
add something to that or
extended in some way? Well,
it's, it's up to you
to add that as a
property of some JavaScript object.
So you're going to write
some JavaScript code that is
your client side view model.
So you'll say VAR view
model equals, and then you'll
do curly brace and you'll
start typing out some properties
that you want on your
view model. So you might
have an array of, of
tickets called available tickets. And
that might be the thing
that just came from your
server. You might have another
property called selected ticket or
something. And that represents what
the user's got selected. You
might have another property, which
is sort of final value,
including discount or something. And
that's going to be computed
from some other properties, but
yeah, you're going to construct
some JavaScript that represents that
view model. And then you
can write whatever behaviors you
want enter into that, to
control what selections are legitimate,
what kind of data entry
is valid and how different
properties are computed from each
other, just implant, JavaScript code.
And that's, that's the essence
of why the pattern is
clean because all your, your
behavioral logic there is just
in terms of an abstract
model and it isn't touching
any HTML, Dom elements. It's
not doing jQuery selectors or
anything that sort of mixes
different technologies, just JavaScript. Now
I'm seeing this K O
dot observable function in your
example. And that appears appears
just by looking at this
to be the only function
that is used in your
example, on your homepage here
and apply bindings. I guess
there's one other NACADA does
a few different things. If
I list the kind of
major headline features and knockout,
then I can explain how
Kara observable fits into that.
And what the point of
that is. So, as I've
talked about at length already,
it's following the MVVM pattern
in order to give you
a sort of nice structure
for all your client's side
behavior. And as I mentioned,
it's, it's got a system
of declarative bindings that happened
to be the HTML five
data by an attribute. But
if you're not working in
Actimel five, you just think
of it as another attribute.
It doesn't really matter. And
another one of the key
things that it deals with
is dependency tracking. So as
you're defining a view model,
you can have properties on
that view model that whose
values are computed in terms
of the other properties and
knock out notices when you're
doing that and automatically wires
up internally, all the subscriptions
between those things. So you,
as a developer, don't have
to ever declare that such
and such a thing depends
on something else just by
simply referencing one property from
inside another property, the dependency
is set up implicitly for
you. So you can have
like a total price on
your view model. That's computed
in terms of a quantity
and a discount level and
so on and knock out
deals with tracking the dependencies
so that as each property
updates any of the property,
that depends on that gets
updated. And as a very
satisfying, special case of this
dependency tracking the UI is
just one more dependency. So
as you modify properties on
your view model, because your
UI, your HTML Dom happens
to be just one more
of these dependencies, knockout will
implicitly update that Dom. So
if you've got a binding
that says the text of
this span is the total
price then because you, somebody
edits a quantity that will
cause the total price to
be updated because that's a
dependency of quantity and then
knock out. We'll also notice
that that span element is
a dependency on total price.
So the span element will
be updated. So by updating
quantity and the view model,
the total price span gets
updated automatically. Now that kind
of interaction is traditionally what
gets people in trouble because
they end up building themselves
a little state machine and
they have to declare where
the authoritative source of the
data is. Well, okay. So
this is what the counter
observable thing is all about.
The idea is that you
can express your view model
in terms of a certain
number of independent underlying properties
that are the sort of
raw underlying data. So if
we continue with this whole
thing about quantities and total
prices, and so on total
price was not an underlying
piece of data. So whereas
quantity is that can update
independently of anything else. And
so anything that's an independent
piece of data is observable.
And other things can be
declared as a dependent observable,
which are computed in terms
of those. And you can
have a whole chains of
dependencies, but at the root
of it, all, some things
are the independent authority of
pieces of information. And they're
the only ones that you
can directly modify. Everything else
is computed from those. So
I can hook up input,
text boxes. I can hook
up, you know, selects like
combo boxes. What about funky
custom controls, like calendar controls
and things that are weird.
Yeah. All right. So the,
the model for dealing with
something like that is that
you can create custom bindings.
So knock out has a
load of builtin bindings. I'm,
I'm using the word binding.
Not sure that's a great
choice cause it's very a
well overloaded term that every
framework uses that word to
mean a different thing. But
in knockout, the bindings refers
to the things, the bits
of tax that you can
put declaratively on a Dom
element in order to link
it with your view model.
So you could say data
bind text to this property
data, bind, collect to some
handler that occurs when you
click data bind visible to
some other property. And that
controls whether the elements visible
or not, according to whether
a property is true or
false, so that in these
cases, click and visible and
so on. They're the bindings.
You can create a custom
binding. And so with the
calendar example, and just a
few lines of code, assuming
that your calendar is a
nice API, you could create
a custom binding cold come
the date for let's say,
and then on your Dom
element, you can say candidates,
colon give the name of
some property, which is a
date. And then whenever your
property value changes, it will
call your custom binding, which
can in turn, call the
API on your calendar element
to set the new value
on your calendar. You can
do. So it's just a
little adapter that says, Hey,
knock out something. He's not
going to telling me something's
changed. And I know where
to put it because I
know how to call this
such and such a Yeah,
I'm the investor as well.
So when your calendar raises
an event, so the user
just changed the day. Then
again, that's going to call
your binding and your binding.
We'll do the reverse of
pushing the new data into
the view model. So it's
two way. And once I've
done that, I never think
about it again. Yeah, that's
right. And it's all done
in a declarative way. Yeah,
exactly. Okay. So I can
bring Jason back from the
server. I can Mark up
with these data elements, my
HTML input things as well
as my custom controls. Yep.
But if I bring back
a big list of stuff,
the list of tickets, yep.
How do I get that
out onto the screen? How
do I make angle brackets
HTML out of that? So
that's good that you mentioned
that cause that's the sort
of fourth major feature of
knockout, which is dealing with
templates. When you want to
display stuff on screen, you
can just directly use a
binding on an element to
say, make the text of
this element equal this property.
And that's, that's really convenient
in some cases, but in
other cases you want to
emit loads of HTML, not
just, you know, a single
property on a certain single
element. And in that case,
you can use templates. And
for example, you can just
start typing out some HTML.
That's just normal HTML. You
put that inside a script
block block with an, an
ID, which is the name
of the template that you
want to use. And then
somewhere else, you link a,
an element to that template
by using the binding called
template. So you create a
dev, let's say, and you
say template and give the
name of the template. And
so knockout will then invoke
your template, get the HTML
that comes out of that
and stuff. Enter the dev
that you've just found it
too. And in the case
of a list you can,
while you could, for one
thing in your template, you
could have a, for each
loop. So you could generate
a lot of you could
generate repeating blocks of HTML
from inside your template. If
you wanted to knockout supports
what it has a pluggable
system for template engines in
theory, but in practice, the
only one that people are
really using is the jQuery
template engine. And that allows
you to do simple control
flow statements like if else,
and for followups. So you
can generate repeating blocks of
extra mile that way, if
you want to. And that's
quite nice. And then whenever
something in your model changes,
the template would be rear-ended
and the whole thing would
be updated. And then there's
a second option. You can
use that there's a special
binding called foreach and that
renders your template multiple times
once for each item in
an array. And so you
might think that's just equivalent
to put an a for
each loop inside the template.
And it kind of is,
but it's got a performance
benefit, which is that when
one of the things inside
your array changes, knockout is
smart enough to just update
that just to the template
for that one thing and
insert it at the right
point in your Dom. It
doesn't have to run the
template again for every single
thing in the array. So
I'm looking through your documentation
and I see this simple
grid. Yeah. That's an extended
example of that. Yep. A
simple grid on, I don't
know if that one particularly
works that way. It probably
does, But I mean, it's
like, I want a table
of stuff and I want
it to be as easy
as possible. Yeah. I could
go and do all the
tables and the tr and
the TD and all that
kind of stuff. But in
this case, you're going to
do it for me. Yeah.
So this, the simple grid
is an example of how
you could create a plugin
on top of knockout. And
so in this case, I've
created a great plugin that
allows you to just take
a, an array and say,
render this array of JavaScript
data into a grid like
structure. And you say the
names of the columns and
it, and the number of
items you want on each
page. And it will just
give you a grid and
it's quite simple, but you
could use that as a
starting point to extend and
customize the templates for each
row, if you wanted, or,
you know, give it all
kinds of fancy features like
salting and such. Like, So
in that example, in the
simple grid example, it's a
plugin that's really very encapsulated
and I don't see much
markup. And then the templating
example, like you gave where
you could put like a,
for each or each tag
around it using a templating
language, I have a lot
more control, but it's a
little less reusable. Yeah, exactly.
Yeah. Okay. Interesting. And one
of the things that I
noticed when I was looking
at this there's this little
example where you've got a
first name and a textbox
and the last name and
a text box, and as
you start typing and you
tab away, you then update
a, a span where you
say, you know, hello world,
you know, like first name
Scott, last name, Hanselman. Hello,
Scott Hanselman. Yeah. What if
I'm putting evil things in
there and script and Jason,
and I'm a bad person?
Well, that's not a problem
for, for two reasons. One
is that when, if you
assign the text of some
element using the text bonding,
then it will use the
correct HTML, Dom API for
assigning the text on the
element, not the HTML content.
So it doesn't matter if
there's ankle brackets in there.
They're just going to come
out as literal and go
backwards. The second reason why
that's not problem is that
if you want to type
in malicious script on your
own page, that's only going
to affect you. Cross site
scripting only becomes a problem.
If you can make the
script to run on someone
else's computer, not your own
and knock out is not
making it any easier for
that to happen. So XSS
is really a service side
issue that the server is
emitting some markup to someone
who, and it's bad markup.
And that person doesn't want
that bad markup. Sometimes when
you, when, when one plays
with the samples and applications
like this, and they start
poking around, they see the
easy examples. Yeah. Like hello
world and stuff. And then
you start getting into detailed
examples. You wonder if that
open source project is going
to fall down as, cause
everyone always feels like their
project, their business rule, their
thing is special, you know,
but no, no, no. But
at my company, right, everyone
has 12 phone numbers. Yeah.
When you, and there's a
number of things that I
think that people who are
just now getting into JavaScript
and Ajax look at as
being virtually impossible, like you've
got this really great example
here of a context editor
where a contact can have
any number of phone numbers
when things are kind of
one to many and very
open-ended. Yep. How does knockout
handle things like that? And
then when I'm done, how
do I get that data
back to the server side?
Okay. Yeah. Well, I don't
worry too much that people
are going to come up
with use cases that are
too difficult for knockout because
NACA is really just yet
another implementation of the MVVM
pattern, which is quite well
established. And I didn't invent
that I'm, you know, I'm
confident that that's used in,
you know, very demanding situations.
So you're, you're basically saying
that that it's so extensible
and so basic, and that
the Pat it is the
pattern itself that would break
down, not the library implementation
of it. I don't think
there's a problem with the
partners. It's a very straightforward
kind of concept. And I've,
I've not been able to
think of a situation in
which it didn't apply. Having
said that I do get
a lot of support questions
from people saying, I'm trying
to do this kind of
thing, and I'm basing it
on this example of yours
and I've got this extra
requirement and I can't figure
out how to do it.
And whenever that happens, my
response is always well, let's
think about how you model
that in your view model.
And the person is often
thinking something like, Oh, I'm
not thinking about a view
model. I'm thinking about running
some jQuery events on that
element and then directly manipulating
the Dom. And I'm getting
confused. And I always have
to say that you're going
to have to stop thinking
about directly manipulating the dominant
art hoc kind of uncontrolled
fashion. Because if you do
that, it's not in sync
with your view model anymore.
And then you don't really
have any clear idea of
what your data is a
way of behavior behaviors. And
so the more people get
into thinking in MVVM way,
the simpler it becomes for
them, but it is quite
a leap. If you are
used to a more sort
of ad hoc way of
building a UI. I see.
So what I'm hearing you
say, calling back to the
discussion we had earlier about
making your own state system
is that if you're used
to maintaining state and messing
around and trying to keep
everything in sync, you're going
to be going against a
system whose very existence is
to make sure that everything's
in sync. Exactly. Yes. And
if you start duplicating what
it does, then, you know,
you've kind of lost the
benefit of it because the
whole point is that it
does that for you And
why I'm noticing also just
occasionally as I moved my
way through your examples that
there are a little utilities
and things I'm not necessarily
familiar with value has mutated
remove a array, remove item.
Are there some, yeah. Some
things that you've put in
there, some syntactic sugar that
makes it a little easier
to do these kinds. Yeah.
There's a bunch of utility
methods in there that simplify
working with a raise. So
they, for example, in Java
script, there's no straightforward way
of removing a particular object
from array. You have to
somehow find the index of
that object and then run
a splice on it. And
it's quite difficult to remember
how to do that because,
you know, , before it
doesn't even have an index
of method and then the
syntax for splice is really
hard to remember. So for
example, I've just created a,
a remove method that will
just literally find and remove
an object. And that's really
useful in a lot of
cases. So there's a whole
bunch of things like that,
but that's not really the
point of knockout that's that
was mainly to make my
implementation of it simpler. And
it just so happens that
those same methods happen to
be useful when you're writing
your own code as well.
But it's not primarily about
a system for processing grays
and day structures. There are
other libraries that are better
for that, like underscore JS
or prototype JS. That's what
they specialize in. And so
if you're going to be
doing a lot of low
level array, manipulation and object
graph manipulation, you might want
to combine it with one
of those. Do you know
of any other, I mean,
what's, who's knockouts competition. Are
there any other MVVM patterns
like this out there? I
mean, I know that there
is some discussion of different
live data, things that Microsoft
had put some implementation of
some kind of live data
sinking out there. Yeah. This
there's two other libraries that
I think overlap somewhat. One
of them is from Microsoft.
There's the J query data
linking proposal, which I think
has gone beyond being a
proposal. Now it's kind of
a, a real jQuery plugin.
And that does a part
of what narco knockout does.
It gives you a way
of doing a live link
between some JavaScript model data
and, and some parts of
your HTML. So that's a,
that's covering a part of
it, but it doesn't deal
with things like dependency tracking.
So if you've got a
sophisticated model where property eight
depends on B, which depends
on see, and this, and
this is more common than
it sounds, you might think.
I, I don't have to
compute lots of stuff, but
if you just think, Oh,
even you've just got a
selection index. And then from
that, you want to compute
which item is selected. And
then somewhere else you want
to display a property of
the selected item. This is
all dependencies of the index
or the thing that's selected.
And so knock out handles
that in a really straightforward
way. I'm not sure exactly
what the best way to
do that with the Microsoft
data, linking plugin, as it
might have a good way
of dealing with that. But,
you know, I'm not sure.
Do you think that you
would integrate, like if just
this becomes a jQuery official
thing, do you bring that
in? I mean, when you're,
when you're a person out
there who is making a
library where, like you said,
you know, there's some intersections,
there's not a clear knockout
JS does this and this,
you know, Fu JavaScript does
the exact same thing. And
you guys are like the
VHS and beta. No, no,
it's not at all. I
don't want to reproduce what
someone else is doing. If,
if, if there are two
lipids that do the same
thing, I'd prefer the bat.
I want to win. And
the other one to go
away and I have no
personal interest in maintaining just
for the sake of it.
But knock out is, is
a particular way of following
the MVVM pattern and doing
the whole automatic declarative bindings
with dependency tracking very much
so of, if you fit
into the system, it's going
to work really nicely for
you. If you don't fit
into the system, if you,
if you're not willing to
do MVVM, then it's not
going to work so nicely
for you. So I've got
very opinionated framework here that
is going to work great
if you follow it. Whereas
the, the jQuery data linking
tool is, is a more
of a low level thing.
And I don't think that
specifically guide you to structure
your client side code in
one particular way, rather than
other, I don't know. I've
not seen any guidance about
that. Cool. Well, I like
opinionated. I think we can
all agree that jQuery is
added a lot of opinionated
thinking around Jason and certainly
another opinionated JavaScript library as
a welcome, a welcome thing.
Yeah. And I should also
just mention at this point,
the other one of the
two libraries that's quite similar
is a backbone JS you
might want to check out.
And that is by the
guy who created coffee script.
I can't remember his name
right now, unfortunately, but it's
a very smart guy. And
he's created this, a JavaScript
library that also links the
HTML Dom with every model.
So it's quite similar, but
the, one of the key
differences there is that backbone
JS has a very rich
kind of model systems. So
you're expected direct to derive
your classes from a particular
base class inside a backbone
JS, and then follow very
specific conventions about how you
load and save that data
with your server. So it's
kind of all about the
model there, and it's got
very sort of basic support
for then binding that onto
your HTML. Not as much
as whereas knockout is dealing
with very, very rich UI
bindings, very declarative template oriented
and so on, but knock
out doesn't really have very
much opinion about how you're
going to load and save
data from the server. That's
kind of up to you
depending on what service. All
right. Fantastic. Well, thank you,
Steve so much for chatting
with us today. Folks can
see all of this@knockoutjs.com and
you're now Steve essay at
Microsoft. Thank you very much.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes. We'll see
you again Next week.